From our research group's homepage:

> "Spin-based quantum computing involves using quantum mechanical spin states as the "1"s and "0"s of a computer for storage and calculation. Quantum computers will use these states and quantum mechanical operations to solve certain kinds of problems exponentially faster than classical computers. Examples of such problems include database searching and the cryptographic task of factoring large numbers into primes. Using the spin states of electrons in semiconductor nanostructures for the quantum-mechanical bits (qubits) of such a computer was first proposed in 1998, and has been the subject of much theoretical and experimental research ever since.

> For electrons to be used in qubits and spintronic devices, their spin states must be controllable. Undesired interaction with environmental factors such as nuclear spins and phonons can lead to decoherence. To prevent unwanted changes to qubits, this decoherence must be small enough that it does not irreversibly affect the quantum state of the computer on the time scale of the computing operations. In order for spin-based nanosystems to function, they must therefore be implemented in materials which have relatively long spin lifetimes. Finding out which materials have the best spin dynamic properties will help characterize materials for spintronic and quantum computing applications."

In our lab, I am in charge of this project. I am currently working on measuring the coherence times of electrons localized in lattice defects in 4H-SiC (Silicon Carbide). I am responsible for everything including set-up, error analysis, data collection, and data analysis. To actually probe electron spin-coherence I have set up a simple ODMR-type experiment with a cryostat mounted sample next to a microwave coupling loop being hit with a [AOM] pulsed ti:sapph laser. I use a well-documented technique commonly known as rabi-scans and spin-echo scans to probe the coherence times of the electron spins at different temperatures. I then fit the coherence plots to an exponential and measure the time constant.
